<!doctype html>
<html lang="en" dir="ltr" class="docs-wrapper docs-doc-page docs-version-current plugin-docs plugin-id-default docs-doc-id-about/Meetings" data-has-hydrated="false">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8">
<meta name="generator" content="Docusaurus v2.4.3">
<title data-rh="true">Meetings | UN Transparency Protocol</title><meta data-rh="true" name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"><meta data-rh="true" name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image"><meta data-rh="true" property="og:image" content="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/img/un-crm-social-card.png"><meta data-rh="true" name="twitter:image" content="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/img/un-crm-social-card.png"><meta data-rh="true" property="og:url" content="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/docs/about/Meetings"><meta data-rh="true" name="docusaurus_locale" content="en"><meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en"><meta data-rh="true" name="docusaurus_version" content="current"><meta data-rh="true" name="docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current"><meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current"><meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current"><meta data-rh="true" property="og:title" content="Meetings | UN Transparency Protocol"><meta data-rh="true" name="description" content="UNTP development team meetings are held weekly at alternating times to accomodate participants from different timezones."><meta data-rh="true" property="og:description" content="UNTP development team meetings are held weekly at alternating times to accomodate participants from different timezones."><link data-rh="true" rel="icon" href="/spec-untp/img/favicon.ico"><link data-rh="true" rel="canonical" href="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/docs/about/Meetings"><link data-rh="true" rel="alternate" href="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/docs/about/Meetings" hreflang="en"><link data-rh="true" rel="alternate" href="https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/docs/about/Meetings" hreflang="x-default"><link rel="preconnect" href="https://www.google-analytics.com">
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://www.googletagmanager.com">
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-9NBG7HW734"></script>
<script>function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments)}window.dataLayer=window.dataLayer||[],gtag("js",new Date),gtag("config","G-9NBG7HW734",{anonymize_ip:!0})</script><link rel="stylesheet" href="/spec-untp/assets/css/styles.d1f904c1.css">
<link rel="preload" href="/spec-untp/assets/js/runtime~main.aeec88cd.js" as="script">
<link rel="preload" href="/spec-untp/assets/js/main.262df929.js" as="script">
</head>
<body class="navigation-with-keyboard">
<script>!function(){function t(t){document.documentElement.setAttribute("data-theme",t)}var e=function(){var t=null;try{t=new URLSearchParams(window.location.search).get("docusaurus-theme")}catch(t){}return t}()||function(){var t=null;try{t=localStorage.getItem("theme")}catch(t){}return t}();t(null!==e?e:"light")}()</script><div id="__docusaurus">
<div role="region" aria-label="Skip to main content"><a class="skipToContent_oPtH" href="#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback">Skip to main content</a></div><nav aria-label="Main" class="navbar navbar--fixed-top"><div class="navbar__inner"><div class="navbar__items"><button aria-label="Toggle navigation bar" aria-expanded="false" class="navbar__toggle clean-btn" type="button"><svg width="30" height="30" viewBox="0 0 30 30" aria-hidden="true"><path stroke="currentColor" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-miterlimit="10" stroke-width="2" d="M4 7h22M4 15h22M4 23h22"></path></svg></button><a class="navbar__brand" href="/spec-untp/"><div class="navbar__logo"><img src="/spec-untp/img/logo.svg" alt="United Nations Transparency Protocol" class="themedImage_BQGR themedImage--light_HAxW"><img src="/spec-untp/img/logo.svg" alt="United Nations Transparency Protocol" class="themedImage_BQGR themedImage--dark_bGx0"></div><b class="navbar__title text--truncate">TP</b></a></div><div class="navbar__items navbar__items--right"><a aria-current="page" class="navbar__item navbar__link navbar__link--active" href="/spec-untp/docs/about">About the UNTP</a><a class="navbar__item navbar__link" href="/spec-untp/docs/specification">The specification</a><a class="navbar__item navbar__link" href="/spec-untp/docs/tools-and-support">Tools and support</a><a class="navbar__item navbar__link" href="/spec-untp/docs/extensions">Extensions</a><a class="navbar__item navbar__link" href="/spec-untp/docs/implementations">Implementations</a><a href="https://app.slack.com/client/T03KNUD7LHZ/C05R8DD2AKZ" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" class="navbar__item navbar__link navbar-slack-link"><svg class="icon icon-slack"><use xlink:href="#slack"></use></svg><span class="menu-item-name">Slack</span></a><a href="https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" class="navbar__item navbar__link navbar-github-link"><svg class="icon"><use xlink:href="#github"></use></svg><span class="menu-item-name">Github</span></a><div class="searchBox_WqAV"></div></div></div><div role="presentation" class="navbar-sidebar__backdrop"></div></nav><div id="__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback" class="main-wrapper mainWrapper_MB5r docsWrapper_ct1J"><button aria-label="Scroll back to top" class="clean-btn theme-back-to-top-button backToTopButton_iEvu" type="button"></button><div class="docPage_KLoz"><aside class="theme-doc-sidebar-container docSidebarContainer_y0RQ"><div class="sidebarViewport_EJ1r"><div class="sidebar_CUen"><nav aria-label="Docs sidebar" class="menu thin-scrollbar menu_jmj1"><ul class="theme-doc-sidebar-menu menu__list"><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist menu__link--active" aria-expanded="true" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/">About the UNTP</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;About the UNTP&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div><ul style="display:block;overflow:visible;height:auto" class="menu__list"><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Goals">Audience, Benefits &amp; Goals</a></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Requirements">Requirements</a></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Governance">Governance</a></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link menu__link--active" aria-current="page" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Meetings">Meetings</a></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Pledge">Pledge</a></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-link theme-doc-sidebar-item-link-level-2 menu__list-item"><a class="menu__link" tabindex="0" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/FAQ">FAQ</a></li></ul></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/specification/">Specification</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Specification&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/design-patterns/">Best Practices</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Best Practices&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/business-case/">Business Case</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Business Case&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/tools-and-support/">Implementation Guidance</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Implementation Guidance&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/extensions/">Extensions Register</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Extensions Register&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li><li class="theme-doc-sidebar-item-category theme-doc-sidebar-item-category-level-1 menu__list-item menu__list-item--collapsed"><div class="menu__list-item-collapsible"><a class="menu__link menu__link--sublist" aria-expanded="false" href="/spec-untp/docs/implementations/">Implementations Register</a><button aria-label="Toggle the collapsible sidebar category &#x27;Implementations Register&#x27;" type="button" class="clean-btn menu__caret"></button></div></li></ul></nav></div></div></aside><main class="docMainContainer_sTIZ"><div class="container padding-top--md padding-bottom--lg"><div class="row"><div class="col docItemCol_Qr34"><div class="docItemContainer_tjFy"><article><nav class="theme-doc-breadcrumbs breadcrumbsContainer_T5ub" aria-label="Breadcrumbs"><ul class="breadcrumbs" itemscope="" itemtype="https://schema.org/BreadcrumbList"><li class="breadcrumbs__item"><a aria-label="Home page" class="breadcrumbs__link" href="/spec-untp/"><svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" class="breadcrumbHomeIcon_sfvy"><path d="M10 19v-5h4v5c0 .55.45 1 1 1h3c.55 0 1-.45 1-1v-7h1.7c.46 0 .68-.57.33-.87L12.67 3.6c-.38-.34-.96-.34-1.34 0l-8.36 7.53c-.34.3-.13.87.33.87H5v7c0 .55.45 1 1 1h3c.55 0 1-.45 1-1z" fill="currentColor"></path></svg></a></li><li itemscope="" itemprop="itemListElement" itemtype="https://schema.org/ListItem" class="breadcrumbs__item"><a class="breadcrumbs__link" itemprop="item" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/"><span itemprop="name">About the UNTP</span></a><meta itemprop="position" content="1"></li><li itemscope="" itemprop="itemListElement" itemtype="https://schema.org/ListItem" class="breadcrumbs__item breadcrumbs__item--active"><span class="breadcrumbs__link" itemprop="name">Meetings</span><meta itemprop="position" content="2"></li></ul></nav><div class="tocCollapsible_wXna theme-doc-toc-mobile tocMobile_Ojys"><button type="button" class="clean-btn tocCollapsibleButton_iI2p">On this page</button></div><div class="theme-doc-markdown markdown"><header><h1>Meetings</h1></header><div class="theme-admonition theme-admonition-info alert alert--info admonition_uH4V"><div class="admonitionHeading_P5_N"><span class="admonitionIcon_MF44"><svg viewBox="0 0 14 16"><path fill-rule="evenodd" d="M7 2.3c3.14 0 5.7 2.56 5.7 5.7s-2.56 5.7-5.7 5.7A5.71 5.71 0 0 1 1.3 8c0-3.14 2.56-5.7 5.7-5.7zM7 1C3.14 1 0 4.14 0 8s3.14 7 7 7 7-3.14 7-7-3.14-7-7-7zm1 3H6v5h2V4zm0 6H6v2h2v-2z"></path></svg></span>info</div><div class="admonitionContent_yySL"><p>Please note that this content is under development and is not ready for implementation. This status message will be updated as content development progresses.</p></div></div><h1>Meetings</h1><p>UNTP development <a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85091806131" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">team meetings</a> are held weekly at alternating times to accomodate participants from different timezones. </p><p>Each meeting will generally work through open <a href="https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/issues" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">issues</a> and <a href="https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/pulls" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">pull requests</a>. </p><p>Previous meeting dates, recordings, transcripts, and minutes are summarised below with the most recent meeting at the top.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="next-meeting">Next Meeting<a href="#next-meeting" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Next Meeting" title="Direct link to Next Meeting">​</a></h2><p>The next meeting is 8am UTC 13th June 2024.  <a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87319408152?pwd=dTdyOUU5b1dzdDdjZDZVNFMzSGZLUT09" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Join here</a></p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="previous-meetings">Previous Meetings<a href="#previous-meetings" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Previous Meetings" title="Direct link to Previous Meetings">​</a></h2><table><thead><tr><th>Meeting</th><th>Summary</th><th>Recording</th><th>Transcription</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>2024-06-05</td><td><a href="#2024-06-05-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on improving meeting participation, managing transcription and summary processes, handling JSON schema and JSON-LD context differences, addressing challenges with semantic interoperability, and establishing principles for managing context files.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/Vfcr6ZV7Bw0Z8uTKyM1_P8nLkpKaZU0VBLCH9Hlu4xRWbfD8tE5_gL6F87Ny7u3Y.jX5z3_867OAXwB3l" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-06-05-Recording-2795a1a2863e4db41e87b41a1f8d1e1b.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-05-30</td><td><a href="#2024-05-30-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on addressing pull requests, aligning with EU right-to-repair regulations, and discussing the challenges and strategies for maintaining and verifying digital product passports within the supply chain.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/vd5oKvWwlRDVlxImzoovy7VsocYbTZgTf5bwKjPuruXUBhPvWJodg24FAD_MLqps.9E3v0xVpCeyefeqD" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-05-30-Recording-cca8e7da133445609d41e24a94fb3ef7.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-05-23</td><td><a href="#2024-05-23-meeting-summary">The Working Group discussed updates to the digital product passport sample file, terminology adjustments, and the adoption of a &quot;transparency graph&quot; to better align with the VC data model and enhance data validation and provenance.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/SdwSmtENQawZpdXpnurPv5wkP4L-mg2pjbRdzK1wi2itXXkgXbe6OBT4RqImwD5m.KKXfqVY1njdUt3ax" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-05-23-Recording-2673b8f0434dec3fa713da8d8b12c878.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-05-16</td><td><a href="#2024-05-16-meeting-summary">In the meeting, the team discussed updates to project examples and data models, alignment with international standards, and strategies for maintaining interoperability and accurate mappings in linked data while preparing for upcoming pilot implementations.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/B4wZX-BYXPWg0tuDWSotj572qmUKWOHF0l4k2EFiLI_A7_V83gMATKN_-Nfx9sNR._aXbdvOi2fICOFRy" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-05-16-Recording-195b352ecd72ab1b1345e721067d39f1.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-05-09</td><td><a href="#2024-05-09-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on aligning digital product passport models with the VC data model, removing scoring elements to simplify the structure, and discussing the implementation of trust graphs and multilingual support using governed overlays.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/eABzv6OBR_sjL3y9LgHzaVgKchOM8oyZjdS2GnM63Lzanf1yr0kcEAAppJ9sPRDc.6883MbcV4-aA3GPY" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-05-09-Recording-49a0d963aa6f97bf9ee1ace31193c876.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-04-25</td><td><a href="#2024-04-25-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on reviewing and processing pull requests, assigning stale issues, and emphasizing broader collaboration within the group, with key discussions on traceability event schema updates and the verification of identifiers.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/8QIKuM-X89PbBR7dVxag34wEhR6P2152HDkv0TwHNAj_nldDc_T73Ngkf3mKAU6T.SqXk0F1TscOaMYZ1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-04-24-Recording-864dd471307c53722998e969daa18c9c.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-04-18</td><td><a href="#2024-04-18-meeting-summary">The April 18, 2024, meeting focused on streamlining specification sections, reviewing and merging several pull requests, and discussing key issues related to verification and trust graphs, with commitments to create examples and improve meeting efficiency.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/yLKR1_JwcBlaKM2fSzd1eXZ05cSsD2Qyvnj0u4KjrRGaom6dDq_TM6aKPpe04Uct.anqfPC0BPiHwfb1u" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-04-18-Recording-429ff632f11529d71405cf0685346bf7.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-04-11</td><td><a href="#2024-04-11-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on discussing industry use cases for the Digital Product Passport, trust and credential verification methods, and agreeing on future tasks and pilot projects, with an emphasis on more active use of Slack for ongoing discussions.</a>)</td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/RaLiDGP2pyCmOAPFqpJRcEnF9ojg8WabMv1L2xuKSHoKlAJCyCW3F_AZcvyVPptx.N2Z6iGWG3RjymbqN" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-04-10-Recording-11032394c3495b960f8e1cb4cd884ebc.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-04-04</td><td><a href="#2024-04-04-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on refining digital product passports and verifiable credentials, emphasizing interoperability, traceability, and the development of clear business requirements to guide technical decisions.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/zVeXVEPoDTQ47d6_rczVyrNDGiD6Vc21fy64MkDh2a4165B59cZ4ZIqCA1oF2gMX.htabo2zwpxjDMvmI" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-04-04-Recording-6a3c085d130bc71f802f8bb87d4ee7ff.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-03-28</td><td><a href="#2024-03-28-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on discussing and refining the digital product passport (DPP) structure, addressing the challenges of integrating claims and evidence at different levels, and planning further updates and reviews to ensure its practical implementation.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/HrpLjWU_cLtjo-gHIAs9xjSRIm_NzfVhxzld18XPPYMQKSpwcWo_b_H_7RRrwiwD.QqsvfDxuKkcwmxZD?startTime=1711569572000" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-03-27-Recording-e946a23aeebb4ecee3bf6666116b6263.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-03-14</td><td><a href="#2024-03-15-meeting-summary">The team discussed the successful submission of the policy document, agreed on weekly meetings, reviewed technical specifications and PRs, and demonstrated GitHub contribution processes.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/fdrIhDXrEvwLcB5v08kdraTfC_7ywRWeYFa-J-LTpGxnCDdxVM6iwyQze_P2BX_z.c7dLspw0q6KCGQ0e?startTime=1710399547000" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-03-15-Recording-8b1f6d26597f40a53423d6ba7a981e67.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-02-29</td><td><a href="#2024-02-29-meeting-summary">The team discussed updates from Europe, aligned on the structure of recommendations and challenges in their document, and set a plan for finalizing the document for submission by the end of the week.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/KQlvFMg2SSlNxsExQJhqzvVaRJSLUPv5SO2W6ze9qqd_Dqpos4blNxAELBbXan-f.z26h2PCKv-krbiX8" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-02-29-Recording-909652076a641cf957276a85a81ef248.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-02-15</td><td><a href="#2024-02-15-meeting-summary">The meeting focused on refining the policy document draft by incorporating feedback, simplifying technical language, and aligning with global frameworks to prepare for final review and public release.</a></td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/FHQ1wz0jlb5cRl8mGeZXgYHE_jzbosvnTqBJCsxtxsdsGt_BJGiVx0gywOnj2vua.9B0mR7dX6nBcVzDg" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td><a target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/assets/files/2024-02-15-Recording-d113a9db50189d56720d6909d91e2ec4.txt">transcript</a></td></tr><tr><td>2024-01-18</td><td>TBD</td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/oPEDPSpZGLBBP5qykEBDaG5NxxMrQu_snm3NmiqZQuGhBVxlWv5bf-70jeuqMvd5.S_8jH8Vk8IW57B0X" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td>TBD</td></tr><tr><td>2024-01-11</td><td>TBD</td><td><a href="https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/jX87C2PZ55iY3hFW-5L2rroXL7HoGY20Qg_m2h0B6a92_u6nk7tKkvfUKfIW6HLp.c_0QNnRPl6anrzyW?startTime=1704956458000" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">video</a></td><td>TBD</td></tr></tbody></table><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-06-05-meeting-summary">2024-06-05 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-06-05-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-06-05 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-06-05 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Attendees:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve (Speaker 1)</li><li>Virginia (Speaker 3)</li><li>Jason (Speaker 5)</li><li>Patrick (Speaker 2)</li><li>Marcus (Speaker 4)</li><li>Other unidentified speakers</li></ul><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Meeting Organization and Participation:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve acknowledged the need to increase participation in meetings through better marketing.</li><li>Reminded attendees that this is a UN meeting and contributions are considered UN IP.</li><li>Steve mentioned that meetings are recorded and transcriptions are published.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Meeting Transcription and Summary Process:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve shared updates on how meeting transcriptions and summaries are managed.</li><li>Introduced a table format for meeting summaries with video transcripts, text transcripts, GPT summaries, and one-sentence summaries for quick reference.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Pull Requests and JSON Schema vs. JSON-LD Context:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on handling pull requests and differences between JSON schema (structure) and JSON-LD context (meaning).</li><li>Steve shared a detailed explanation and a diagram to clarify these differences, using examples like a verifiable credential describing a traceability event for a bale of cotton.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Challenges with JSON-LD Context and Semantic Interoperability:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve highlighted the challenges in mapping complex, abstracted data models to meaningful terms in a consistent way.</li><li>Illustrated the difficulty with an example involving transport means and IMO numbers, emphasizing the problem with abstract structures in JSON-LD context files.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Discussion on Governance and Granularity:</strong></p><ul><li>Patrick and Marcus contributed to the discussion on how to manage the complexity and granularity of context files.</li><li>Marcus suggested using catalog entries to manage multiple schemas and context files, which could help in maintaining semantic integrity and version control.</li><li>The need for proper governance to ensure correct mappings and avoid wrong semantic interpretations was emphasized.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Principles for Managing Context Files:</strong></p><ul><li>Agreement on keeping context files small, semantically correct, and aligned with specific use cases.</li><li>Steve proposed focusing on manageable granularity for context files, suggesting one context file per credential schema to simplify governance and changes.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Future Steps:</strong></p><ul><li>Plan to open an issue for further discussion on mapping complexity and balance.</li><li>Aim to document guiding principles for UNTP governance and implementers.</li><li>Acknowledgment that more discussion and iteration are needed to refine the approach.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve to draft guiding principles for context file management.</li><li>Open an issue for further discussion on mapping complexity and balance.</li><li>Follow-up discussions to refine the approach based on feedback and further exploration.</li></ul><p><strong>Meeting Conclusion:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve thanked everyone for their participation and contributions.</li><li>The meeting ended with an acknowledgment of the need for ongoing collaboration to address the challenges discussed.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-05-30-meeting-summary">2024-05-30 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-05-30-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-05-30 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-05-30 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Attendees:</strong></p><ul><li>Zachary</li><li>Stefano</li><li>Michael</li><li>Joe</li><li>Bill</li><li>Peter</li><li>Various team members</li></ul><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Pull Requests:</strong></p><ul><li>Zachary presented his closed pull request related to test architecture. He acknowledged the need to update it based on Steve&#x27;s feedback and plans to do so by next week.</li><li>Discussion on merging half-baked pull requests to ensure progress and avoid stagnation.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Issues:</strong></p><ul><li>The team has 50 open issues, with a tendency to create more than they resolve.</li><li><strong>Selective Disclosure Use Cases and Requirements:</strong> This issue is on hold, with a potential demo for the UN forum being considered.</li><li><strong>PDF Generator Issue:</strong> Assigned to three people, none of whom were present. It was suggested to put a note for easy conversion of GitHub sites to PDF documents and possibly mark the issue as pending close.</li><li><strong>Right to Repair Regulations:</strong> Stefano highlighted the importance of aligning with EU regulations on this matter to enhance document alignment. He volunteered to draft relevant verbiage.</li><li><strong>Depth of Product Information:</strong> The team discussed the necessity of tracking both upstream and downstream information, debating the practical limits and methods for maintaining depth without overcomplicating the process.</li><li><strong>Discovery Mechanism:</strong> Discussion on the challenge of linking product information if the physical identifier is lost. No immediate solution was found, and the issue might be closed without action or tagged for future consideration.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Technical Discussions:</strong></p><ul><li>The challenge of maintaining a dynamic and evolving digital product passport was discussed, with considerations on how to append information without altering the original document.</li><li>There was a consensus on the importance of linked product passports, with each tier in the supply chain responsible for creating and maintaining their own passports and linking them appropriately.</li><li>Verification and validation processes for credentials were discussed, with the need to detail steps for verifying issuers, data, schema, and status.</li><li>Discussion on certificates of conformity and the need for a practical way to refer to specific sections within a comprehensive conformity document.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Future Actions:</strong></p><ul><li>Explore solutions for appending information to digital product passports without compromising the original data.</li><li>Open new tickets to address specific downstream right-to-repair solutions.</li><li>Investigate the potential need for a central registry or blockchain solution to ensure the longevity and accessibility of digital product passports.</li><li>Ensure alignment with existing standards and leverage the work done by related bodies.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong>
The meeting covered a range of issues from pull requests to regulatory alignment and the technical challenges of digital product passports. The team agreed on the need for continued exploration and development in these areas, with specific action items identified for follow-up. The meeting ended with the decision to be more aggressive in closing unresolved issues to maintain a manageable list.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-05-23-meeting-summary">2024-05-23 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-05-23-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-05-23 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-05-23 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Participants:</strong> Virginia, Steve, Patrick, Zach, Gerhard, Marcus, John, Virginia, Joe, Phil, Harley, Juliet, and others.</p><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Attendance and Meeting Logistics:</strong></p><ul><li>Various participants joined from different locations, including Steve on a yacht in Corfu.</li><li>Technical difficulties were experienced by some participants with the meeting link.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Meeting Overview:</strong></p><ul><li>The meeting was recorded and contributions are governed by a UN project.</li><li>The agenda focused on pull requests, updates to tickets, and related discussions.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Pull Requests and Sample File Updates:</strong></p><ul><li>A pull request discussed was about updating a sample file for the digital product passport.</li><li>The sample file was initially populated with real data from a participant&#x27;s wife&#x27;s company, which was then genericized.</li><li>Agreement to merge the pull request after making it align better with the VC data model.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Discussion on Naming and Structuring Digital Product Passports:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on the appropriate terminology for types of credentials and subjects within the digital product passport.</li><li>Suggestions included keeping terms like &quot;product passport&quot; consistent and aligned with the data model.</li><li>The group discussed the implications of using terms like &quot;digital&quot; in various contexts.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Alignment with the VC Data Model:</strong></p><ul><li>Agreement that the digital product passport should not compete with but rather use the VC data model.</li><li>Proposed changes include aligning the example data and the data model, and updating the website accordingly.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Trust Graph vs. Transparency Graph:</strong></p><ul><li>Extensive discussion on the terminology to describe the assessment of linked data within digital product passports.</li><li>Alternatives considered included &quot;trust graph,&quot; &quot;provenance graph,&quot; &quot;evidence graph,&quot; and &quot;transparency graph.&quot;</li><li>Consensus leaned towards using &quot;transparency graph&quot; to avoid confusion and to better align with the project&#x27;s goals.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Reference to W3C Provenance Model:</strong></p><ul><li>Marcus suggested using the W3C Provo ontology as a framework for describing the evidence or transparency graph.</li><li>This approach would help in structuring and querying the data to provide a clear lineage and validation of the information.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve to make the discussed changes to the pull request and update the data model and website.</li><li>Participants to review the W3C Provenance Model and consider its integration into the project specifications.</li><li>Further refinement and alignment of terminology and models in future discussions.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Next Steps:</strong></p><ul><li>Follow-up on the discussed changes and updates.</li><li>Continued refinement of terminology and alignment with established data models.</li><li>Ongoing review and merging of pull requests as per the consensus reached.</li></ul><p><strong>Closing:</strong></p><ul><li>The meeting concluded with an acknowledgment of the productive discussion and the clarity gained on several topics. Participants were thanked for their contributions.</li></ul><p>For more detailed information, the full meeting recording and notes are available for review.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-05-16-meeting-summary">2024-05-16 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-05-16-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-05-16 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-05-16 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Date:</strong> May 16, 2024</p><p><strong>Participants:</strong> Various speakers including Steve, Phil Archer, Nis, Suzanne, and others.</p><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="key-points-discussed">Key Points Discussed:<a href="#key-points-discussed" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:" title="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:">​</a></h4><ol><li><p><strong>Introduction and IP Reminder:</strong></p><ul><li>Contributions to the project are under the UNIP framework.</li><li>Agenda includes discussing outstanding pull requests, ongoing tickets, and the relationship between schema, context files, and vocabularies.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Pull Requests Review:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Minor Typo Fix:</strong> A simple typo correction was merged without objections.</li><li><strong>Example Update:</strong> An update to the example in the passport and conformity credential sections was discussed. Concerns about using a real company&#x27;s product (buyacre.com) were raised, suggesting a switch to imaginary examples to avoid IP issues.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Test Architecture Proposal:</strong></p><ul><li>Introduction of a three-tier conformance testing model: technical interoperability, schema testing, and business workflow testing.</li><li>Emphasis on ensuring must/should requirements are testable.</li><li>Discussion on using existing W3C test suites for core elements and defining additional tests for extensions.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Linked Data and JSON-LD Context Files:</strong></p><ul><li>Importance of linked data for ensuring consistent meaning across multiple instances.</li><li>Strategy to keep JSON-LD context files light and map only necessary elements to avoid complexity and incorrect mappings.</li><li>Agreement to develop the data model first and then map to established vocabularies.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Issues and Tickets:</strong></p><ul><li>Several issues tagged as pending closure after aligning models with VCDM.</li><li>Ongoing discussions on specific issues, with updates and resolutions expected in future meetings.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>External Collaborations and Standards:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve presented at the Surpass kickoff, discussing alignment with the European Commission&#x27;s efforts on product passports.</li><li>Suzanne highlighted the need to align with JTC 24 standards, focusing on product passport issuance and upstream supply chain data integration.</li><li>Proposal to establish a formal liaison with JTC 24 through the UN.</li></ul></li></ol><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="actions-and-next-steps">Actions and Next Steps:<a href="#actions-and-next-steps" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Actions and Next Steps:" title="Direct link to Actions and Next Steps:">​</a></h4><ol><li><p><strong>Steve:</strong></p><ul><li>Work with Nis to update example models with non-proprietary products.</li><li>Align data models with VCDM and prepare for pilot implementations.</li><li>Follow up on establishing a formal liaison with JTC 24 through the UN.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Phil Archer:</strong></p><ul><li>Review any references to secure QR codes and update the test suite as needed.</li><li>Monitor and update the alignment with JTC 24 standards.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Suzanne:</strong></p><ul><li>Provide guidance on establishing a liaison with JTC 24.</li><li>Monitor JTC 24 activities and report back on potential divergences or necessary alignments.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>All Participants:</strong></p><ul><li>Review the updated data models and provide feedback in the next meeting.</li><li>Engage in discussions on trust graphs and interoperability in upcoming calls.</li></ul></li></ol><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="closing-remarks">Closing Remarks:<a href="#closing-remarks" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Closing Remarks:" title="Direct link to Closing Remarks:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Meeting ended 15 minutes early, with participants appreciating the extra time. The next meeting will focus on updates to the data models and further discussions on trust graphs.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-05-09-meeting-summary">2024-05-09 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-05-09-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-05-09 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-05-09 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Attendees:</strong></p><ul><li>Speaker 1 (Steve)</li><li>Speaker 2 (Patrick)</li><li>Speaker 3 (Virginia)</li><li>Speaker 4 (John)</li><li>Speaker 5 (Marcus)</li><li>Speaker 6 (Unidentified)</li><li>Speaker 7 (Unidentified)</li></ul><p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p><ol><li>Review of Outstanding PRs</li><li>Discussion on Key Tickets</li><li>Assignment Updates</li></ol><p><strong>Key Points:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>General Updates:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve is currently anchored in Hvar, Croatia.</li><li>Meeting participants are from various time zones, with some joining late at night.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Recording and Contributions:</strong></p><ul><li>Meeting is recorded and contributions are for UNIP.</li><li>Participants are reminded that if they do not wish to contribute to UNIP, they should refrain from sharing ideas.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Review of PRs:</strong></p><ul><li>Only one pull request was discussed, which focused on enriching the content for conformity credentials.</li><li>The PR aims to align with existing business requirement specifications and the logical model of digital product conformity certificates.</li><li>Discussion about aligning fields with the VC (Verifiable Credentials) data model, particularly the &quot;issuer&quot; field.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Feedback on PRs:</strong></p><ul><li>Nis provided feedback on the PR, suggesting alignment with the VC data model.</li><li>Discussion on avoiding duplication of information and using complex objects in the VC issuer field.</li><li>Decision to merge the current PR and address alignment in subsequent revisions.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Trust Graphs:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion led by John on the concept of trust graphs and the complexity of defining absolute measures of trustworthiness.</li><li>Agreement that trust decisions should be subjective and context-dependent, rather than protocol-defined scores.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Rendering Methods:</strong></p><ul><li>Patrick discussed the use of OCA (Overlays Capture Architecture) for rendering credentials, supporting multiple languages and additional metadata.</li><li>Emphasis on separating rendering logic from the data integrity of credentials.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Multilingual Support:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on whether multilingual support should be embedded within the credential or handled through external overlays.</li><li>Consensus on using governed presentation layers for multilingual support to keep credentials simple and maintainable.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Align digital product passport models with the VC data model.</li><li>Remove the scoring elements from the digital product passport to avoid complications and ensure clarity.</li><li>Write a ticket to formally propose the removal of scoring from the digital product passport (John).</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Other Discussions:</strong></p><ul><li>Mention of the Australian Agriculture Traceability Protocol as a model for implementing similar initiatives.</li><li>Steve highlighted a new publication from the Australian Government on agricultural traceability, noting the influence of UNTP.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Closing Remarks:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve thanked participants and emphasized the importance of aligning with the VC data model.</li><li>Next steps include continuing work on assigned tickets and discussing progress in the next meeting.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Next Meeting:</strong></p><ul><li>Participants will continue with their assigned tasks and discuss further progress in the following week.</li></ul><p>This summary captures the main points and action items from the meeting, ensuring clarity on the next steps and ongoing discussions.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-04-25-meeting-summary">2024-04-25 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-04-25-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-04-25 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-04-25 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Meeting Start and Introductions:</strong></p><ul><li>The meeting was initiated by Speaker 1, who took over the role of Master of Ceremony due to Steve being on a flight.</li><li>Attendance included a significant Australian contingent despite it being a public holiday in Australia.</li><li>Steve is traveling to China to coordinate supply chain pilot projects in the battery and critical mineral manufacturing process.</li></ul><p><strong>Agenda and Objectives:</strong></p><ul><li>Review and process of open pull requests.</li><li>Assignment and movement of stale issues.</li><li>Emphasis on facilitating broader collaboration within the group.</li><li>Encouragement for discussions to be taken offline or into Slack channels unless mission-critical.</li></ul><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Pull Requests:</strong></p><ul><li>Three pull requests were reviewed.</li><li>Major update to the traceability event schema by Steve was discussed, aligning more closely with the GS1 EPCIS standard.</li><li>Gerhard suggested creating an issue to compare the current model with the existing data models used in other sectors like animal track and trace and textiles.</li><li>Another pull request involved adding a governance section to describe the collaboration process.</li><li>A minor but potentially controversial pull request to remove an &quot;out of place header&quot; was discussed. The group decided to create a ticket to further explore the verifiability of identifiers before merging the pull request.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Issues:</strong></p><ul><li>Several issues were discussed, including the addition of page listing referenced standards, digital product passport sample files, and UNTP extensions methodology.</li><li>Gerhard highlighted the importance of maintaining interoperability by having a concise data model applicable across different industries.</li><li>Marcus and Virginia emphasized the need for clear guidance on how extensions fit within the core data structures and the governance process for managing these extensions.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Creation of issues for comparing data models and verifying identifiers.</li><li>Assignment of tasks to specific individuals, including Zach taking on the task of providing a digital product passport sample file.</li><li>Further discussion on trust graph validation and the relationship between extensions and the core UNTP specifications.</li></ul><p><strong>Closing Remarks:</strong></p><ul><li>The meeting concluded with thanks to Zach for leading the session in Steve&#x27;s absence.</li><li>A reminder for continuous collaboration and the importance of adhering to the process for pull requests and issue discussions.</li></ul><p>This summary captures the main points and action items from the meeting, providing a concise overview for those who were unable to attend.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-04-18-meeting-summary">2024-04-18 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-04-18-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-04-18 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-04-18 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="participants">Participants:<a href="#participants" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Participants:" title="Direct link to Participants:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Speaker 1</li><li>Nis (Master of Ceremonies)</li><li>Phil</li><li>Susanne</li><li>Steve</li><li>Zach</li><li>Michael</li><li>Gerhard</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="key-points-discussed-1">Key Points Discussed:<a href="#key-points-discussed-1" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:" title="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:">​</a></h4><ol><li><p><strong>Reminder on Contributions:</strong></p><ul><li>Contributions made to the GitHub repository are contributions to United Nations Intellectual Property (UN IP).</li><li>External specifications like GS1 and W3C can be referred to, but unique content belongs to UN IP.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Streamlining Specification Sections:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on the need to streamline the specification sections due to too many headings.</li><li>Proposal to handle this later in the normal order of pull requests and issues.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Pull Requests:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Pull Request 57 by Phil:</strong><ul><li>Focused on identifying discoverability and the pervasiveness of scanners and software.</li><li>Positive feedback and agreement to build incrementally on the contributions.</li></ul></li><li><strong>Pull Request 59 by Zach:</strong><ul><li>Simplified goals based on previous discussions, addressing issue 53.</li><li>Merged with no objections.</li></ul></li><li><strong>Pull Request by Steve:</strong><ul><li>Added verifiable credentials section, discussing business requirements and existing technical specifications.</li><li>Emphasis on conservative issuance and flexible verification.</li><li>Merged with no objections.</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Issues Discussion:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Issue 9 (Verification and Trust Graphs):</strong><ul><li>Proposal to use business-friendly examples and diagrams to explain trust graphs.</li><li>Three common patterns identified:<ol><li>Same identity across different credentials.</li><li>Conformity credential linked to claim.</li><li>Certifier accredited by a trusted third party.</li></ol></li><li>Commitment to create a PR with these examples for further discussion.</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>General Agreement:</strong></p><ul><li>Need for more use cases to test the scenarios and specification.</li><li>Encouragement for more participants to lean in and help move forward with the tasks.</li><li>Importance of balancing detailed discussions with progress on issues.</li></ul></li></ol><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="actions-and-assignments">Actions and Assignments:<a href="#actions-and-assignments" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Actions and Assignments:" title="Direct link to Actions and Assignments:">​</a></h4><ul><li><strong>Steve and Suzanne:</strong> Collaborate on creating examples and diagrams for the trust graph patterns.</li><li><strong>Phil:</strong> To work on aligning terminologies (must, should, may) with IETF standards.</li><li><strong>All participants:</strong> Add comments on issues directly in GitHub for better tracking and follow-up.</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="next-steps">Next Steps:<a href="#next-steps" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Next Steps:" title="Direct link to Next Steps:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Assign issues before discussions in the next meeting.</li><li>Ensure more focused discussions to cover more issues efficiently.</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="closing-remarks-1">Closing Remarks:<a href="#closing-remarks-1" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Closing Remarks:" title="Direct link to Closing Remarks:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Commitment to improving the pace of progress while bringing everyone along on the journey.</li><li>Meeting adjourned with a plan to implement better structure in future meetings.</li></ul><p>This summary captures the essence of the meeting, the key decisions made, and the next steps agreed upon. If you need any specific details from the transcript, please let me know!</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-04-11-meeting-summary">2024-04-11 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-04-11-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-04-11 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-04-11 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Attendees:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve</li><li>Patrick</li><li>Susanna</li><li>Virginia</li><li>Susan</li><li>Becky</li><li>Nancy</li><li>Zach</li><li>Carolyn</li><li>Joe</li><li>Stephen</li><li>Other Participants</li></ul><p><strong>Main Discussion Points:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Introduction and Setup:</strong></p><ul><li>Initial greetings and setting up systems.</li><li>Discussion on the global timing of the meeting to accommodate different time zones, primarily focusing on American and Canadian colleagues.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Podcast Mention:</strong></p><ul><li>Mention of a podcast with Darrell O&#x27;Donnell and the suggestion to share the link in the Slack channel.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Meeting Formalities:</strong></p><ul><li>Reminder that contributions are for U.N. IP and that the meeting is recorded.</li><li>Standard procedure involves reviewing open pull requests and discussing issues.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Digital Product Passport (DPP) Development:</strong></p><ul><li>Emphasis on the need to start looking at industry use cases.</li><li>Discussion on the GBA digital product battery passport and ISO standard for digital product circularity.</li><li>Agreement to merge changes related to the product passport data model.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Use Cases and Industry Pilots:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on industry-specific pilots for testing the feasibility and value of the DPP.</li><li>Mention of upcoming pilots in agriculture and critical raw materials.</li><li>Carolyn shared a slide explaining the value chain and the application of the UNTP framework.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Trust and Credential Verification:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on trust registries and methods for verifying the trustworthiness of credential issuers.</li><li>Different approaches were considered, including the use of DID (Decentralized Identifiers) and linked credentials.</li><li>Example of the Australian Business Register and how it could issue credentials to businesses.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Verifiable Credentials and Exchange Models:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on the best practices for exchanging verifiable credentials, whether wallet-to-wallet or through a publish and discover model.</li><li>Reference to a project that involved publicly discoverable credentials and lessons that could be relevant for UNTP.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Technical Infrastructure and DID Methods:</strong></p><ul><li>Concerns about the infrastructure for DID web and potential lock-in with service providers.</li><li>Suggestion to develop recommendations for DID methods suitable for different use cases, such as small businesses and product identifiers.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Upcoming Tasks and Assignments:</strong></p><ul><li>Agreement to work on a prototype for linked credentials and identity verification.</li><li>Decision to use Slack more actively for offline discussions to expedite progress.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Patrick to write a summary of lessons from the discussed project and how they might impact UNTP.</li><li>Stephen Curran to work on a prototype for verifying linked credentials.</li><li>Create a ticket for recommending DID methods for different use cases.</li><li>More active use of Slack for ongoing discussions and resolving tickets.</li></ul><p><strong>Next Meeting:</strong></p><ul><li>The next meeting will be held at a time more convenient for European participants.</li></ul><p><strong>Additional Notes:</strong></p><ul><li>Suzanne from the World Economic Forum and the Global Battery Alliance participated for the first time.</li><li>Stephen Curran introduced a new DID method called Trusted Web, which could be relevant for the project&#x27;s needs.</li></ul><p>This summary captures the key points and discussions from the meeting on April 10, 2024.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-04-04-meeting-summary">2024-04-04 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-04-04-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-04-04 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-04-04 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Attendees:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve (Speaker 1)</li><li>Nisht (Speaker 2)</li><li>SAC Representative (Speaker 8)</li><li>Michael Shea (Speaker 9)</li><li>Virginia (Speaker 5)</li><li>Brett (Speaker 7)</li><li>Gerhard (Speaker 3)</li><li>Joe (Speaker 4)</li><li>Ashley (Speaker 6)</li></ul><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Recording and IP Contribution:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Steve</strong> reminded everyone that contributions are voluntary, and IP is contributed to the UN.</li><li>A recording will be posted for those who couldn&#x27;t attend.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Digital Product Passport (DPP):</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Steve</strong> requested additional discussion time on DPP updates.</li><li>Issues with pull requests (PR) were discussed, particularly around supply chain depth clarification.</li><li>Agreement to merge a PR and address depth in a subsequent PR.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Pull Requests and Issues:</strong></p><ul><li>A PR from <strong>SAC Representative</strong> was discussed. It was agreed to merge it with follow-up clarifications.</li><li>Discussion on identifiers for entities and products, emphasizing the need for multiple identifiers (e.g., GLN, ABN, DID) and the ability to verify them.</li><li>Importance of having robust claims for product categories and items, considering changes over time.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Granularity in Product Claims:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Virginia</strong> and <strong>Gerhard</strong> led a detailed discussion on handling product claims at different levels (e.g., product class vs. individual items).</li><li>Emphasized the necessity of batch numbers and serialized identifiers for traceability and integrity.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Verifiable Credentials and Technical Specifications:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on the approach for verifiable credentials and the need for implementation guidelines.</li><li>Discussion on interoperability, technical recommendations, and the balance between specificity and flexibility.</li><li>Agreement to draft business requirements to guide technical recommendations.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Rendering Templates for Verifiable Credentials:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Ashley</strong> presented on using rendering templates within credentials.</li><li>Discussion on embedding templates vs. linking to external sources, considering privacy, performance, and integrity.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Next Steps and Actions:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Steve</strong> to draft business requirements for verifiable credentials.</li><li><strong>Nis</strong> and others to provide feedback and draft a pull request based on these requirements.</li><li>Further discussion on specific technical choices and their rationale.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Steve</strong> to draft and post business requirements for verifiable credentials.</li><li><strong>All relevant parties</strong> to prepare and review pull requests related to DPP updates and verifiable credentials.</li><li>Continue discussions on granularity of product claims and implementation guidelines.</li></ul><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong>
The meeting focused on refining the process for handling digital product passports and verifiable credentials, ensuring robust and interoperable solutions. The importance of clear business requirements to guide technical decisions was emphasized, and specific actions were assigned to move forward with these discussions.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-03-28-meeting-summary">2024-03-28 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-03-28-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-03-28 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-03-28 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="attendees">Attendees:<a href="#attendees" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Attendees:" title="Direct link to Attendees:">​</a></h4><ul><li><strong>Stephen (Speaker 1)</strong></li><li><strong>Kevin (Speaker 13)</strong></li><li><strong>Nancy Norris (Speaker 5)</strong></li><li><strong>Stephen Curran (Speaker 14)</strong></li><li><strong>Jason (Speaker 7)</strong></li><li><strong>Phil (Speaker 2)</strong></li><li><strong>Virginia (Speaker 3)</strong></li><li><strong>Christophe (Speaker 12)</strong></li><li><strong>Michael (Speaker 10)</strong></li><li><strong>Zach (Speaker 12)</strong></li><li><strong>John (Speaker 9)</strong></li><li><strong>Peter (Speaker 8)</strong></li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="key-points-discussed-2">Key Points Discussed:<a href="#key-points-discussed-2" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:" title="Direct link to Key Points Discussed:">​</a></h4><ol><li><p><strong>Meeting Timing Adjustments:</strong></p><ul><li>Adjusted to accommodate participants from different time zones, especially from Canada and the U.S.</li><li>Noted appreciation for the flexibility, despite it being late for some European participants.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Welcome and Introductions:</strong></p><ul><li>Introduction of new participants from North America.</li><li>Brief introductions by Nancy Norris and Stephen Curran highlighting their roles and work on verifiable credentials.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Recording and Standards Development:</strong></p><ul><li>Meeting is being recorded.</li><li>Emphasis on the focus on standards development rather than commercial products.</li><li>Contributions to the meeting are considered as contributions to the United Nations Intellectual Property Library.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Digital Product Passport (DPP):</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on the importance of focusing on the DPP due to upcoming pilots in Australia and the EU.</li><li>Emphasis on business attention needed for the DPP structure.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Claims and Evidence:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on how to handle claims at the SKU, batch, and facility levels.</li><li>Recognition of the need to differentiate between product-level and batch-level claims.</li><li>Debate on the inclusion of benchmark values and references in the claims.<ul><li>Some participants argued for the inclusion to provide context and comparability.</li><li>Others suggested it could be out of scope and should be handled by third-party verifiers.</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Granularity of Claims and Evidence:</strong></p><ul><li>Addressed the challenge of reconciling claims at the shipment level with evidence at the facility level.</li><li>Discussed the potential for greenwashing if facility-level evidence is used to support product-level claims without proper verification.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Product vs. Batch Passports:</strong></p><ul><li>Consideration of whether to maintain separate passports for products and batches.</li><li>Discussed the possibility of inheriting claims from product to batch levels.</li><li>Agreed on the need for optional structures to support different use cases.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Vocabulary and Ontology:</strong></p><ul><li>Suggested a need for rigorous definition and management of the taxonomy and ontology of claims.</li><li>Potential overlap between the data model and the vocabulary of sustainability claims.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Next Steps:</strong></p><ul><li>Stephen to update the ticket with the consensus from the discussion.</li><li>Further review and testing of the data model with real use cases to ensure its implementability.</li></ul></li></ol><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="action-items">Action Items:<a href="#action-items" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Action Items:" title="Direct link to Action Items:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Stephen to update the data model and ticket based on the discussion.</li><li>Participants to review the updated model and provide feedback.</li><li>Plan to test the model with sample certificates and real-world scenarios.</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="closing">Closing:<a href="#closing" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to Closing:" title="Direct link to Closing:">​</a></h4><ul><li>Meeting concluded with a reminder to stick to time limits for the benefit of all participants. </li></ul><p>Please let me know if there are any specific details or additional information you would like to include in the summary.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-03-15-meeting-summary">2024-03-15 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-03-15-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-03-15 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-03-15 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Participants:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve</li><li>Phil</li><li>Nis</li><li>Other unnamed speakers</li></ul><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Policy Document Submission:</strong></p><ul><li>The policy document was successfully submitted to the Secretariat and forwarded to the Bureau.</li><li>Approval from Bureau members is in progress, with public release anticipated soon.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Meeting Frequency:</strong></p><ul><li>Discussion on whether to hold meetings weekly or fortnightly.</li><li>Consensus leaned towards weekly half-hour meetings to ensure consistent progress and accountability.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Tech Specifications and PRs:</strong></p><ul><li>Focus to shift to tech specifications following the policy document submission.</li><li>Nis discussed several pull requests (PRs) for practice and refinement.</li><li>Agreed on a structured approach to reviewing and merging PRs.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>GS1 Standards and UNTP:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on the inclusion of GS1 standards and the relationship with UNTP.</li><li>Decision to potentially host information on GS1’s own page and link it from the UNTP site.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Editing and Contributing via GitHub:</strong></p><ul><li>Demonstration on how to edit pages, create issues, and make pull requests on GitHub.</li><li>Emphasis on using the &quot;Edit this page&quot; feature for ease of contribution.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Participants to self-assign tickets on GitHub and contribute to issues and pull requests.</li><li>Continuous monitoring and support via Slack for any technical issues.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Miscellaneous:</strong></p><ul><li>Acknowledgment of contributions to the policy document.</li><li>Future meetings to follow a structured process focusing on PRs and issues.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Next Steps:</strong></p><ul><li>Weekly meetings to continue with a focus on technical specifications.</li><li>Participants to actively engage in GitHub for issue tracking and pull requests.</li><li>Continued collaboration and support to ensure progress on project goals.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-02-29-meeting-summary">2024-02-29 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-02-29-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-02-29 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-02-29 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Date:</strong> February 29, 2024</p><p><strong>Participants:</strong></p><ul><li>Speaker 1 (Steve)</li><li>Speaker 2 (Virginia)</li><li>Speaker 3 (Christophe)</li><li>Speaker 4 (Nes)</li><li>Speaker 5 (Brett)</li><li>Speaker 6 (Jerry)</li><li>Speaker 7 (Rakesh)</li><li>Speaker 8 (Peter)</li><li>Speaker 9 (Unnamed participants)</li></ul><hr><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Introduction and Updates:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve (Speaker 1) is still in Europe and provided an update on his encounters in Europe, including attending the GS1 Global Forum and OECD Textile and Leather Due Diligence Forum. He emphasized the alignment of GS1’s initiatives with the group’s goals and the opportunities for collaboration.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>European Meetings:</strong></p><ul><li>GS1 Global Forum: Discussed their customers&#x27; challenges and the potential for cooperation in the use of resolvable identifiers and digital product passports.</li><li>OECD Forum: Major brands like Adidas are struggling with due diligence requirements and need a standard to push through their supply chain.</li><li>Surpass Program: EU’s initiative for pilot projects in various sectors, which is seen as complementary to UNDP.</li><li>DG Grow: European Commission&#x27;s interest in complementary end-to-end pilots.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Feedback on Europe Meetings:</strong></p><ul><li>The feedback received from meetings in Europe was generally positive, indicating a good alignment with the group&#x27;s objectives and a strong appetite for collaboration on digital product passports and related initiatives.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Discussion on UNDP and EU DPP:</strong></p><ul><li>Virginia highlighted the need to base the cross-border environmental passport on UNDP and mentioned that UNEP is interested in cooperating but prefers to base their work on UNDP.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Recommendations Structure:</strong></p><ul><li>The group discussed the structure of the recommendations in their document, deciding on having recommendations after the challenges section, aligning with standard UN document structures.</li><li>Emphasized the importance of making digital product passports resolvable and verifiable and the role of identifier schemes.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Challenges Section:</strong></p><ul><li>Agreement to shorten the challenges section to make the document more readable and concise, aiming for about two pages.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Next Steps:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve will rework Section 1 based on the feedback, shorten the challenges, and send out the updated version by Monday for final review before submission to the Secretariat by the end of the week.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li>Steve to revise Section 1 and shorten the challenges section.</li><li>Send the revised document to the team by Monday.</li><li>Team to review and provide feedback before the next meeting on Thursday.</li><li>Finalize the document for submission by Friday.</li></ul><p><strong>Meeting Adjourned:</strong></p><ul><li>Meeting concluded with a plan to reconvene on Thursday for final review.</li></ul><hr><p>This summary captures the key points and actions from the meeting, ensuring that all participants are aligned on the next steps and responsibilities.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-02-15-meeting-summary">2024-02-15 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-02-15-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-02-15 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-02-15 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><p><strong>Participants:</strong></p><ul><li>Speaker 1 (Chair)</li><li>Speaker 2 (Virginia)</li><li>Speaker 3 (Gerhard)</li><li>Speaker 4 (Rakesh)</li><li>Speaker 5 (Stefano)</li><li>Speaker 6</li><li>Speaker 7 (Joe)</li><li>Speaker 8</li><li>Speaker 9</li><li>Speaker 10</li></ul><p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p><ol><li>Review and focus on the policy document draft.</li><li>Discuss feedback and make necessary adjustments.</li><li>Prepare for final iteration of sections before the public review.</li></ol><p><strong>Key Points Discussed:</strong></p><ol><li><p><strong>Policy Document Review:</strong></p><ul><li>The meeting primarily focused on the policy document draft instead of GitHub issues.</li><li>The urgency to finalize REC 49 for the UN plenary in July was emphasized. The document needs to complete a two-month public review starting early March.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Feedback and Structural Changes:</strong></p><ul><li>Feedback from UN Secretariat suggested separating recommendations to member states (Section 1) from those to industry actors (Section 2).</li><li>Virginia&#x27;s recent edits include:<ul><li>An introduction explaining the purpose of Recommendation 49.</li><li>A section detailing the UNTP and its challenges in a table format.</li><li>Clarification on roles and opportunities in Section 2.</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Content Adjustments:</strong></p><ul><li>Speaker 2 pointed out the need for an explanatory section on UNTP.</li><li>Speaker 1 shared insights from discussions with WTO member state delegates, highlighting the importance of simplifying the document’s language and message.</li><li>Stakeholder mapping and visual aids were suggested to clarify the focus on different audiences.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Technical and Terminological Clarifications:</strong></p><ul><li>Debate on the term &quot;protocol&quot; concluded with keeping the term but clarifying its meaning in the context of the document.</li><li>Replace &quot;ESG&quot; with &quot;sustainability&quot; to avoid political connotations and ensure clarity.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Strategic Alignment:</strong></p><ul><li>Rakesh emphasized aligning the document with existing multilateral frameworks (G20, OECD) and strategic objectives of countries.</li><li>Highlighting benefits such as harmonization and reduction of industry burden to appeal to policymakers.</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Final Edits and Testing:</strong></p><ul><li>The need for another draft incorporating feedback was agreed upon.</li><li>Testing the revised document on external policymakers for readability and impact before the final iteration.</li></ul></li></ol><p><strong>Action Items:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Virginia</strong> to integrate feedback and refine the document.</li><li><strong>Rakesh</strong> to draft paragraphs on aligning with global initiatives and specifying relevant government departments.</li><li><strong>Joe and Gerhard</strong> to provide additional input on technical simplifications and stakeholder visual aids.</li><li><strong>Speaker 1</strong> to circulate an updated draft by Monday for final review and feedback.</li></ul><p><strong>Closing Remarks:</strong></p><ul><li>Appreciation for the hard work and contributions from all team members.</li><li>Next steps include refining the document based on today’s discussions and preparing for final testing with policymakers.</li></ul><p><strong>Next Meeting:</strong></p><ul><li>Date to be determined, expected early next week to review the updated document.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-01-18-meeting-summary">2024-01-18 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-01-18-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-01-18 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-01-18 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_JmGV" id="2024-01-11-meeting-summary">2024-01-11 Meeting Summary<a href="#2024-01-11-meeting-summary" class="hash-link" aria-label="Direct link to 2024-01-11 Meeting Summary" title="Direct link to 2024-01-11 Meeting Summary">​</a></h2></div><footer class="theme-doc-footer docusaurus-mt-lg"><div class="theme-doc-footer-edit-meta-row row"><div class="col"><a href="https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/edit/main/website/docs/about/Meetings.md" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener" class="theme-edit-this-page"><svg fill="currentColor" height="20" width="20" viewBox="0 0 40 40" class="iconEdit_bHB7" aria-hidden="true"><g><path d="m34.5 11.7l-3 3.1-6.3-6.3 3.1-3q0.5-0.5 1.2-0.5t1.1 0.5l3.9 3.9q0.5 0.4 0.5 1.1t-0.5 1.2z m-29.5 17.1l18.4-18.5 6.3 6.3-18.4 18.4h-6.3v-6.2z"></path></g></svg>Edit this page</a></div><div class="col lastUpdated_pbO5"></div></div></footer></article><nav class="pagination-nav docusaurus-mt-lg" aria-label="Docs pages"><a class="pagination-nav__link pagination-nav__link--prev" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Governance"><div class="pagination-nav__sublabel">Previous</div><div class="pagination-nav__label">Governance</div></a><a class="pagination-nav__link pagination-nav__link--next" href="/spec-untp/docs/about/Pledge"><div class="pagination-nav__sublabel">Next</div><div class="pagination-nav__label">Pledge</div></a></nav></div></div><div class="col col--3"><div class="tableOfContents_XG6w thin-scrollbar theme-doc-toc-desktop"><ul class="table-of-contents table-of-contents__left-border"><li><a href="#next-meeting" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">Next Meeting</a></li><li><a href="#previous-meetings" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">Previous Meetings</a></li><li><a href="#2024-06-05-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-06-05 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-05-30-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-05-30 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-05-23-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-05-23 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-05-16-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-05-16 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-05-09-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-05-09 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-04-25-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-04-25 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-04-18-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-04-18 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-04-11-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-04-11 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-04-04-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-04-04 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-03-28-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-03-28 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-03-15-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-03-15 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-02-29-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-02-29 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-02-15-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-02-15 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-01-18-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-01-18 Meeting Summary</a></li><li><a href="#2024-01-11-meeting-summary" class="table-of-contents__link toc-highlight">2024-01-11 Meeting Summary</a></li></ul></div></div></div></div></main></div></div><footer class="footer"><div class="footer__container"><div class="footer__copyright">© United Nations Economic Commission for Europe</div><div class="footer__links"><a class="footer__link-item" target="_blank" href="/spec-untp/un-transparency-protocol.pdf">PDF</a><a class="footer__link-item" href="/spec-untp/terms">Terms and Conditions of Use</a><a class="footer__link-item" href="/spec-untp/privacy">Privacy Notice</a></div></div></footer><svg width="0" height="0" class="hidden"><symbol xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="currentColor" viewBox="0 0 24 24" id="github"><path d="M12.04 0a12.035 12.035 0 0 0-3.731 23.479h.28c.257.012.508-.074.703-.241.237-.207.37-.508.36-.822v-1.304a.491.491 0 0 0-.19-.331.501.501 0 0 0-.41-.1c-2.699.581-3.27-1.104-3.3-1.214a4.654 4.654 0 0 0-1.736-2.197l-.15-.11a.732.732 0 0 1 .381-.07c.508.076.94.41 1.143.883a3.009 3.009 0 0 0 4.012 1.163c.151-.067.262-.2.301-.361.04-.46.24-.893.562-1.224a.501.501 0 0 0 .15-.531.491.491 0 0 0-.421-.351c-2.377-.271-4.814-1.103-4.814-5.205a4.012 4.012 0 0 1 1.063-2.789.491.491 0 0 0 .09-.521 3.57 3.57 0 0 1 .01-2.417A5.586 5.586 0 0 1 8.871 6.89c.123.085.279.107.42.06.897-.239 1.821-.36 2.749-.36a10.34 10.34 0 0 1 2.758.36.461.461 0 0 0 .411-.06c.731-.593 1.6-.99 2.527-1.153a3.55 3.55 0 0 1 0 2.387.481.481 0 0 0 .1.521 4.012 4.012 0 0 1 1.054 2.758c0 4.112-2.437 4.935-4.824 5.196a.491.491 0 0 0-.421.35c-.06.189 0 .394.15.522.449.469.672 1.11.612 1.755v3.19c-.005.315.131.616.37.822.304.23.7.302 1.064.19A12.035 12.035 0 0 0 12.04 0Z"></path></symbol><symbol xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 33.057 33.057" id="search"><g fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="1.5"><path d="M21.723 7.934a9.75 9.721-45 0 1-.02 13.769 9.75 9.721-45 0 1-13.769.02 9.75 9.721-45 0 1 .021-13.768 9.75 9.721-45 0 1 13.768-.02z"></path><path d="M10.481 20.942V25" transform="rotate(-45 17.925 7.425)"></path></g></symbol><symbol xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="currentColor" viewBox="0 0 24 24" id="slack"><g fill-rule="nonzero"><path d="M22.17 16.701h-7.34c-1.01 0-1.83-.815-1.83-1.82 0-1.005.82-1.82 1.83-1.82h7.34c1.01 0 1.83.815 1.83 1.82 0 1.005-.82 1.82-1.83 1.82ZM14.83 11.073c-1.01 0-1.83-.815-1.83-1.82V1.954c-.05-.68.286-1.332.871-1.687a1.839 1.839 0 0 1 1.908 0c.585.355.922 1.007.871 1.687v7.3a1.825 1.825 0 0 1-1.82 1.819ZM9.17 11.073H1.83c-1.01 0-1.83-.815-1.83-1.82 0-1.005.82-1.82 1.83-1.82h7.34c1.01 0 1.83.815 1.83 1.82 0 1.005-.82 1.82-1.83 1.82ZM9.17 24c-1.01 0-1.83-.815-1.83-1.82v-7.299c-.05-.68.286-1.332.871-1.687a1.839 1.839 0 0 1 1.908 0c.585.355.922 1.007.871 1.687v7.3A1.825 1.825 0 0 1 9.17 24ZM2.22 17.517A2.214 2.214 0 0 1 0 15.319a2.264 2.264 0 0 1 2.27-2.257h1.48c.405.005.73.333.73.735v1.472a2.254 2.254 0 0 1-2.26 2.248ZM10.27 4.59H8.78a2.254 2.254 0 0 1-2.26-2.248c-.003-.586.23-1.15.647-1.564A2.216 2.216 0 0 1 8.74.134 2.264 2.264 0 0 1 11 2.392v1.471c0 .401-.327.726-.73.726ZM15.26 24A2.264 2.264 0 0 1 13 21.743V20.27c0-.4.327-.726.73-.726h1.49a2.254 2.254 0 0 1 2.26 2.247c.003.587-.23 1.15-.647 1.564A2.216 2.216 0 0 1 15.26 24ZM21.73 11.073h-1.48a.738.738 0 0 1-.73-.736V8.865a2.254 2.254 0 0 1 2.26-2.247c1.222 0 2.214.982 2.22 2.198a2.264 2.264 0 0 1-2.27 2.257Z"></path></g></symbol></svg></div>
<script src="/spec-untp/assets/js/runtime~main.aeec88cd.js"></script>
<script src="/spec-untp/assets/js/main.262df929.js"></script>
</body>
</html>