---
sidebar_position: 15
title: Meetings
---

import Disclaimer from '../\_disclaimer.mdx';

<Disclaimer />


# Meetings

UNTP development [team meetings](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85091806131) are held every fortnight from thursday 18 Jan at 7:00am UTC. Each meeting will generally work through open [issues](https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/pulls). 

|Meeting|Summary|Recording|Transcription|
|---|---|---|---|
|2024-01-11| | [zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/jX87C2PZ55iY3hFW-5L2rroXL7HoGY20Qg_m2h0B6a92_u6nk7tKkvfUKfIW6HLp.c_0QNnRPl6anrzyW?startTime=1704956458000)| |
|2024-01-18| |[zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/oPEDPSpZGLBBP5qykEBDaG5NxxMrQu_snm3NmiqZQuGhBVxlWv5bf-70jeuqMvd5.S_8jH8Vk8IW57B0X)| |
|2024-03-14| |[zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/fdrIhDXrEvwLcB5v08kdraTfC_7ywRWeYFa-J-LTpGxnCDdxVM6iwyQze_P2BX_z.c7dLspw0q6KCGQ0e?startTime=1710399547000)| |
|2024-03-28| | [zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/HrpLjWU_cLtjo-gHIAs9xjSRIm_NzfVhxzld18XPPYMQKSpwcWo_b_H_7RRrwiwD.QqsvfDxuKkcwmxZD?startTime=1711569572000)| |
|2024-04-04| |[zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/zVeXVEPoDTQ47d6_rczVyrNDGiD6Vc21fy64MkDh2a4165B59cZ4ZIqCA1oF2gMX.htabo2zwpxjDMvmI)| |
|2024-04-11| |[zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/RaLiDGP2pyCmOAPFqpJRcEnF9ojg8WabMv1L2xuKSHoKlAJCyCW3F_AZcvyVPptx.N2Z6iGWG3RjymbqN)| |
| | | | |
|2024-05-30 | [summary](#2024-05-30MeetingSummary) | [zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/vd5oKvWwlRDVlxImzoovy7VsocYbTZgTf5bwKjPuruXUBhPvWJodg24FAD_MLqps.9E3v0xVpCeyefeqD) | [transcription](../meetings/2024-05-30-Recording.txt)| 


## 2024-01-11 Meeting Summary

## 2024-01-18 Meeting Summary

## 2024-03-14 Meeting Summary

## 2024-03-28 Meeting Summary

## 2024-04-04 Meeting Summary

## 2024-04-11 Meeting Summary

## 2024-04-18 Meeting Summary

## 2024-04-25 Meeting Summary

## 2024-05-02 Meeting Summary

## 2024-05-09 Meeting Summary

## 2024-05-16 Meeting Summary

## 2024-05-23 Meeting Summary

## 2024-05-30 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Zachary
- Stefano
- Michael
- Joe
- Bill
- Various team members

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Pull Requests:**
   - Zachary presented his closed pull request related to test architecture. He acknowledged the need to update it based on Steve's feedback and plans to do so by next week.
   - The team discussed the possibility of merging half-baked pull requests to ensure progress and avoid stagnation.

2. **Issues:**
   - The team has 50 open issues, with a tendency to create more than they resolve.
   - **Selective Disclosure Use Cases and Requirements:** This issue is on hold, with a potential demo for the UN forum being considered.
   - **PDF Generator Issue:** Assigned to three people, none of whom were present. It was suggested to put a note for easy conversion of GitHub sites to PDF documents and possibly mark the issue as pending close.
   - **Right to Repair Regulations:** Stefano highlighted the importance of aligning with EU regulations on this matter to enhance document alignment. He volunteered to draft relevant verbiage.
   - **Depth of Product Information:** The team discussed the necessity of tracking both upstream and downstream information, debating the practical limits and methods for maintaining depth without overcomplicating the process.

3. **Technical Discussions:**
   - The challenge of maintaining a dynamic and evolving digital product passport was discussed, with considerations on how to append information without altering the original document.
   - There was a consensus on the importance of linked product passports, with each tier in the supply chain responsible for creating and maintaining their own passports and linking them appropriately.

4. **Future Actions:**
   - Explore solutions for appending information to digital product passports without compromising the original data.
   - Open new tickets to address specific downstream right-to-repair solutions.
   - Investigate the potential need for a central registry or blockchain solution to ensure the longevity and accessibility of digital product passports.

**Conclusion:**
The meeting covered a range of issues from pull requests to regulatory alignment and the technical challenges of digital product passports. The team agreed on the need for continued exploration and development in these areas, with specific action items identified for follow-up.

## 2024-06-06 Meeting Summary

